And just as with objects, there is not only one way to create an array, but in general, we only look
at two ways to create an array.
We look at an array literal and that's just using opening and closing square brackets.
And the second way is to use an array constructor.
And yes, we put to use the new keyword there as well.
Let's have a look at a few examples.
What better way to learn, then examples?
So let's start looking at the different ways to create arrays.
So first, let's use the array literal, and this is the easiest way to create an array.
And the most simple array is it's just called a A4 array.
And if we console.log art, you can see we've got an array.
How easy is that?
We can also create an array with values.
So let's define a variable called animals, and it's defined different values, dog.
Cat and mouse.
And if we consalvo that to the screen.
Sharon has to use console log in this case and just type animals, and there we go.
We can array with dog, cat and mouse and remember how he said an array is an object.
And we went further by saying, you can even put objects within an array.
Let's show an example of that.
So let's call our people.
And remember, with an array, you have to have opening and closing square brackets.
Now we want to put objects into this array.
How do we define an object?
That's right.
With.
Curly braces.
And let's just say name because Wally.
And it's just another one.
That's cool, this when, John.
And let's do one more.
And name her.
Cindy.
And if we counsel people out.
There we go.
You can see it's an array because it's enclosed within square brackets and it's got these objects within
it.
OK.
That is a very literal.
Let's now see.
Array constructor, and with the array constructor, you have to use JavaScript built in array objects
and you have to call it with the new keyword, let me show you what I mean.
So let's define house and it's use the way to do.
Now you just need to put it in the values in this constructor.
So I don't know the three bedroom colors read and it's got three bathrooms.
If we console this out, we should see an array with opening and closing square brackets with these
venues within it.
So you got these house and these the opening closing square brackets and the the values in it, just
as we would expect.
But using their array, constructor can cause weird results.
Let me show you an example.
If you wanting to do an array of numbers, it's pretty straightforward.
You're right.
And this just have numbers five and 10.
And if we console.log this out, I would expect to see an array with values five and 10.
You've got it.
And we do see that in this instance.
But if we just wanted to have an array with one number, it causes weird results.
Have a look at this.
So let's say we've got a new record figures, and we just want that to be the number seven.
If we console.log that up, what would you expect to see what expect to see an array with just the number
seven?
But in this case, it's actually going to give us something different.
It's going to give us an entire interior with seven empty blank spots.
I'll show you what I mean.
Figures.
And it is.
Hasn't given us what we expect it, so for me, I just tend to use the right lateral approach, it's
very intuitive, very easy.
Like I said, there's never one right way to do something in JavaScript.
There's so many different things you can do, and depending on your situation, you may want to use
one of the other.